GETENTROPY(3)                                   Linux Programmer's Manual                                  GETENTROPY(3)

NAME
       getentropy - fill a buffer with random bytes

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int getentropy(void *buffer, size_t length);

   Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

       getentropy():
           _DEFAULT_SOURCE

DESCRIPTION
       The  getentropy() function writes length bytes of high-quality random data to the buffer starting at the location
       pointed to by buffer.  The maximum permitted value for the length argument is 256.

       A successful call to getentropy() always provides the requested number of bytes of entropy.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, this function returns zero.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       EFAULT Part or all of the buffer specified by buffer and length is not in valid addressable memory.

       EIO    length is greater than 256.

       EIO    An unspecified error occurred while trying to overwrite buffer with random data.

       ENOSYS This kernel version does not implement the getrandom(2) system call required to implement this function.

VERSIONS
       The getentropy() function first appeared in glibc 2.25.

CONFORMING TO
       This function is nonstandard.  It is also present on OpenBSD.

NOTES
       The getentropy() function is implemented using getrandom(2).

       Whereas the glibc wrapper makes getrandom(2) a cancellation point, getentropy() is not a cancellation point.

       getentropy() is also declared in <sys/random.h>.  (No feature test macro need be defined to obtain  the  declara‐
       tion from that header file.)

       A  call  to getentropy() may block if the system has just booted and the kernel has not yet collected enough ran‐
       domness to initialize the entropy pool.  In this case, getentropy() will keep blocking even if a signal  is  han‐
       dled, and will return only once the entropy pool has been initialized.

SEE ALSO
       getrandom(2), urandom(4), random(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part  of  release 5.13 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, information
       about reporting bugs, and the latest version of this page, can be found at https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.

Linux                                                  2021-03-22                                          GETENTROPY(3)
