INTRO(3)                                        Linux Programmer's Manual                                       INTRO(3)

NAME
       intro - introduction to library functions

DESCRIPTION
       Section  3  of  the manual describes all library functions excluding the library functions (system call wrappers)
       described in Section 2, which implement system calls.

       Many of the functions described in the section are part of the Standard C Library  (libc).   Some  functions  are
       part  of other libraries (e.g., the math library, libm, or the real-time library, librt) in which case the manual
       page will indicate the linker option needed to link against the required library (e.g.,  -lm  and  -lrt,  respec‐
       tively, for the aforementioned libraries).

       In  some  cases, the programmer must define a feature test macro in order to obtain the declaration of a function
       from the header file specified in the man page SYNOPSIS section.  (Where required, these feature test macros must
       be  defined  before including any header files.)  In such cases, the required macro is described in the man page.
       For further information on feature test macros, see feature_test_macros(7).

CONFORMING TO
       Certain terms and abbreviations are used to indicate UNIX variants and standards to which calls in  this  section
       conform.  See standards(7).

NOTES
   Authors and copyright conditions
       Look  at the header of the manual page source for the author(s) and copyright conditions.  Note that these can be
       different from page to page!

SEE ALSO
       intro(2), errno(3), capabilities(7), credentials(7), environ(7), feature_test_macros(7), libc(7),  math_error(7),
       path_resolution(7), pthreads(7), signal(7), standards(7), system_data_types(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part  of  release 5.13 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, information
       about reporting bugs, and the latest version of this page, can be found at https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.

Linux                                                  2020-11-01                                               INTRO(3)
