PTHREAD_ATFORK(3)                               Linux Programmer's Manual                              PTHREAD_ATFORK(3)

NAME
       pthread_atfork - register fork handlers

SYNOPSIS
       #include <pthread.h>

       int pthread_atfork(void (*prepare)(void), void (*parent)(void),
                          void (*child)(void));

       Link with -pthread.

DESCRIPTION
       The  pthread_atfork()  function  registers  fork  handlers that are to be executed when fork(2) is called by this
       thread.  The handlers are executed in the context of the thread that calls fork(2).

       Three kinds of handler can be registered:

       *  prepare specifies a handler that is executed before fork(2) processing starts.

       *  parent specifies a handler that is executed in the parent process after fork(2) processing completes.

       *  child specifies a handler that is executed in the child process after fork(2) processing completes.

       Any of the three arguments may be NULL if no handler is needed in the corresponding phase of fork(2) processing.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, pthread_atfork() returns zero.  On error, it returns an error number.  pthread_atfork() may be called
       multiple times by a thread, to register multiple handlers for each phase.  The handlers for each phase are called
       in a specified order: the prepare handlers are called in reverse order of registration; the parent and child han‐
       dlers are called in the order of registration.

ERRORS
       ENOMEM Could not allocate memory to record the form handler entry.

CONFORMING TO
       POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.

NOTES
       When  fork(2)  is  called in a multithreaded process, only the calling thread is duplicated in the child process.
       The original intention of pthread_atfork() was to allow the calling thread to be returned to a consistent  state.
       For  example,  at  the time of the call to fork(2), other threads may have locked mutexes that are visible in the
       user-space memory duplicated in the child.  Such mutexes would never be unlocked, since the threads  that  placed
       the locks are not duplicated in the child.  The intent of pthread_atfork() was to provide a mechanism whereby the
       application (or a library) could ensure that mutexes and other process and thread state would be  restored  to  a
       consistent state.  In practice, this task is generally too difficult to be practicable.

       After  a  fork(2)  in  a multithreaded process returns in the child, the child should call only async-signal-safe
       functions (see signal-safety(7)) until such time as it calls execve(2) to execute a new program.

       POSIX.1 specifies that pthread_atfork() shall not fail with the error EINTR.

SEE ALSO
       fork(2), atexit(3), pthreads(7)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 5.13 of the Linux man-pages project.  A  description  of  the  project,  information
       about reporting bugs, and the latest version of this page, can be found at https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.

Linux                                                  2020-08-13                                      PTHREAD_ATFORK(3)
