STDIN(3)                                        Linux Programmer's Manual                                       STDIN(3)

NAME
       stdin, stdout, stderr - standard I/O streams

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       extern FILE *stdin;
       extern FILE *stdout;
       extern FILE *stderr;

DESCRIPTION
       Under  normal  circumstances every UNIX program has three streams opened for it when it starts up, one for input,
       one for output, and one for printing diagnostic or error messages.  These are typically attached  to  the  user's
       terminal  (see  tty(4))  but  might instead refer to files or other devices, depending on what the parent process
       chose to set up.  (See also the "Redirection" section of sh(1).)

       The input stream is referred to as "standard input"; the output stream is referred to as "standard  output";  and
       the error stream is referred to as "standard error".  These terms are abbreviated to form the symbols used to re‐
       fer to these files, namely stdin, stdout, and stderr.

       Each of these symbols is a stdio(3) macro of type pointer to FILE, and can be used with functions like fprintf(3)
       or fread(3).

       Since  FILEs are a buffering wrapper around UNIX file descriptors, the same underlying files may also be accessed
       using the raw UNIX file interface, that is, the functions like read(2) and lseek(2).

       On program startup, the integer file descriptors associated with the streams stdin, stdout, and stderr are 0,  1,
       and  2,  respectively.   The preprocessor symbols STDIN_FILENO, STDOUT_FILENO, and STDERR_FILENO are defined with
       these values in <unistd.h>.  (Applying freopen(3) to one of these streams can change the file  descriptor  number
       associated with the stream.)

       Note  that  mixing  use  of FILEs and raw file descriptors can produce unexpected results and should generally be
       avoided.  (For the masochistic among you: POSIX.1, section 8.2.3, describes in detail  how  this  interaction  is
       supposed  to work.)  A general rule is that file descriptors are handled in the kernel, while stdio is just a li‐
       brary.  This means for example, that after an exec(3), the child inherits all open file descriptors, but all  old
       streams have become inaccessible.

       Since  the  symbols  stdin, stdout, and stderr are specified to be macros, assigning to them is nonportable.  The
       standard streams can be made to refer to different files with help of the library function freopen(3),  specially
       introduced  to make it possible to reassign stdin, stdout, and stderr.  The standard streams are closed by a call
       to exit(3) and by normal program termination.

CONFORMING TO
       The stdin, stdout, and stderr macros conform to C89 and this standard also stipulates that  these  three  streams
       shall be open at program startup.

NOTES
       The stream stderr is unbuffered.  The stream stdout is line-buffered when it points to a terminal.  Partial lines
       will not appear until fflush(3) or exit(3) is called, or a newline is printed.  This can produce  unexpected  re‐
       sults, especially with debugging output.  The buffering mode of the standard streams (or any other stream) can be
       changed using the setbuf(3) or setvbuf(3) call.  Note that in case stdin is associated with a terminal, there may
       also  be input buffering in the terminal driver, entirely unrelated to stdio buffering.  (Indeed, normally termi‐
       nal input is line buffered in the kernel.)  This kernel input handling can be modified  using  calls  like  tcse‐
       tattr(3); see also stty(1), and termios(3).

SEE ALSO
       csh(1), sh(1), open(2), fopen(3), stdio(3)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part  of  release 5.13 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, information
       about reporting bugs, and the latest version of this page, can be found at https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.

Linux                                                  2017-09-15                                               STDIN(3)
