Each file has three time stamps associated with it:  its access time, its modification time, and its attribute modification time.  These correspond to the st_atime, st_mtime, and st_ctime members of the stat structure; see File Attributes. 
All of these times are represented in calendar time format, as time_t objects.  This data type is defined in time.h. For more information about representation and manipulation of time values, see Calendar Time.  
Reading from a file updates its access time attribute, and writing updates its modification time.  When a file is created, all three time stamps for that file are set to the current time.  In addition, the attribute change time and modification time fields of the directory that contains the new entry are updated. 
Adding a new name for a file with the link function updates the attribute change time field of the file being linked, and both the attribute change time and modification time fields of the directory containing the new name.  These same fields are affected if a file name is deleted with unlink, remove or rmdir.  Renaming a file with rename affects only the attribute change time and modification time fields of the two parent directories involved, and not the times for the file being renamed. 
Changing the attributes of a file (for example, with chmod) updates its attribute change time field. 
You can also change some of the time stamps of a file explicitly using the utime function—all except the attribute change time.  You need to include the header file utime.h to use this facility.  
Each of the three time stamps has a corresponding microsecond part, which extends its resolution.  These fields are called st_atime_usec, st_mtime_usec, and st_ctime_usec; each has a value between 0 and 999,999, which indicates the time in microseconds.  They correspond to the tv_usec field of a timeval structure; see Time Types. 
The utimes function is like utime, but also lets you specify the fractional part of the file times.  The prototype for this function is in the header file sys/time.h.  
