The gettext functions have a very simple interface.  The most basic function just takes the string which shall be translated as the argument and it returns the translation.  This is fundamentally different from the catgets approach where an extra key is necessary and the original string is only used for the error case. 
If the string which has to be translated is the only argument this of course means the string itself is the key.  I.e., the translation will be selected based on the original string.  The message catalogs must therefore contain the original strings plus one translation for any such string.  The task of the gettext function is to compare the argument string with the available strings in the catalog and return the appropriate translation.  Of course this process is optimized so that this process is not more expensive than an access using an atomic key like in catgets. 
The gettext approach has some advantages but also some disadvantages.  Please see the GNU gettext manual for a detailed discussion of the pros and cons. 
All the definitions and declarations for gettext can be found in the libintl.h header file.  On systems where these functions are not part of the C library they can be found in a separate library named libintl.a (or accordingly different for shared libraries). 
The remaining two functions to access the message catalog add some functionality to select a message catalog which is not the default one. This is important if parts of the program are developed independently. Every part can have its own message catalog and all of them can be used at the same time.  The C library itself is an example: internally it uses the gettext functions but since it must not depend on a currently selected default message catalog it must specify all ambiguous information. 
When using the three functions above in a program it is a frequent case that the msgid argument is a constant string.  So it is worthwhile to optimize this case.  Thinking shortly about this one will realize that as long as no new message catalog is loaded the translation of a message will not change.  This optimization is actually implemented by the gettext, dgettext and dcgettext functions. 
