The GNU C Library project would like to thank its many contributors. Without them the project would not have been nearly as successful as it has been.  Any omissions in this list are accidental.  Feel free to file a bug in bugzilla if you have been left out or some of your contributions are not listed.  Please keep this list in alphabetical order. 
  Nick Alcock for contributing fixes to allow the GNU C Library to be built with the stack smashing protector enabled.   John David Anglin for various fixes to the hppa port.   Albert ARIBAUD for Y2038 related fixes.   Ryan S. Arnold for his improvements for Linux on PowerPC and his direction as FSF Project Steward for the GNU C Library.   Miles Bader for writing the argp argument-parsing package, and the argz/envz interfaces.   Ralf Bächle for contributing fpu_control.h, regdef.h, sgidefs.h, sys/asm.h, and sys/regdef.h under the sysdeps/mips directory.   Jeff Bailey for his maintainership of the HPPA architecture.   Petr Baudis for bug fixes and testing.   Anton Blanchard for various fixes.   Stephen R. van den Berg for contributing a highly-optimized strstr function.   Ondřej Bílka for contributing optimized string routines for x64 and various fixes.   Eric Blake for adding O(n) implementations of memmem, strstr and strcasestr.   Philip Blundell for the ports to Linux/ARM (arm-ANYTHING-linuxaout) and ARM standalone (arm-ANYTHING-none), as well as for parts of the IPv6 support code.   Per Bothner for the implementation of the libio library which is used to implement stdio functions.   Mark Brown for his direction as part of the GNU C Library steering committee.   Thomas Bushnell for his contributions to Hurd.   Rogerio Alves Cardoso for various fixes to PowerPC.   Paul Clarke for optimized functions on PowerPC.   Mike Crowe for various fixes.   Palmer Dabbelt for contributing the port to Linux/RISC-V.   DJ Delorie for maintenance of Linux/RISC-V, and various fixes.   Wilco Dijkstra for various fixes.   Liubov Dmitrieva for optimized string and math functions on x86-64 and x86.   Ulrich Drepper for his many contributions in almost all parts of the GNU C Library, including:   writing most of the POSIX Threads Library originally.  internationalization support, including the locale and localedef utilities.  Linux i386/ELF support  the hsearch and drand48 families of functions, reentrant ‘…_r’ versions of the random family; System V shared memory and IPC support code  several highly-optimized string functions for ix86 processors  many math functions  the character conversion functions (iconv)  the ftw and nftw functions  the floating-point printing function used by printf and friends and the floating-point reading function used by scanf, strtod and friends  the catgets support and the entire suite of multi-byte and wide-character support functions (wctype.h, wchar.h, etc.).  versioning of objects on the symbol level    Richard Earnshaw for continued support and fixes to the various ARM machine files.   Paul Eggert for the mktime function and for his direction as part of the GNU C Library steering committee.   Steve Ellcey for various fixes.   Mike FABIAN for automating Unicode updates, for updating the locale data for ISO 14651, for updating the library Unicode support, and for various locale updates and fixes.   Tulio Magno Quites Machado Filho for adding a new class of installed headers for low-level platform-specific functionality and one such for PowerPC and various fixes.   Olaf Flebbe and Ralf Bächle for contributing sysdeps/mips/fpu_control.h.   Alistair Francis for Y2038 related fixes.   Mike Frysinger for his maintaining of the IA64 architecture and for testing and bug fixing.   Martin Galvan for contributing gdb pretty printer support to glibc and adding an initial set of pretty printers for structures in the POSIX Threads library.   Michael Glad for the passphrase-hashing function crypt and related functions.   Wolfram Gloger for contributing the memory allocation functions functions malloc, realloc and free and related code.   Gabriel F. T. Gomes for his improvements for Linux on PowerPC and for implementing the IEEE 128-bit floating point type for PowerPC.   Torbjörn Granlund for fast implementations of many of the string functions (memcpy, strlen, etc.).   Michael J. Haertel for writing the merge sort function qsort and malloc checking functions like mcheck.   Bruno Haible for his improvements to the iconv and locale implementations.   Mao Han for the C-SKY port.   Richard Henderson for the port to Linux on Alpha (alpha-anything-linux) and software floating-point support.   David Holsgrove for the port to Linux on MicroBlaze.   Leonhard Holz for various fixes.   Daniel Jacobowitz for various fixes and enhancements.   Andreas Jaeger for the port to Linux on x86-64 (x86_64-anything-linux and his work on Linux for MIPS (mips-anything-linux), implementing the ldconfig program, providing a test suite for the math library and for his direction as part of the GNU C Library steering committee.   Aurelien Jarno for various fixes.   Rical Jasan for contributing various fixes in the GNU C Library manual.   Jakub Jelinek for implementing a number of checking functions, software floating-point support and for his direction as part of the GNU C Library steering committee.   Simon Josefsson for the libidn add-on.   Geoffrey Keating for the port to Linux on PowerPC (powerpc-anything-linux).   Brendan Kehoe for contributing the port to the MIPS DECStation running Ultrix 4 (mips-dec-ultrix4) and the port to the DEC Alpha running OSF/1 (alpha-dec-osf1).   Mark Kettenis for implementing the utmpx interface and a utmp daemon, and for a Hesiod NSS module.   Andi Kleen for implementing pthreads lock elision with TSX.   Kazumoto Kojima for the port of the Mach and Hurd code to the MIPS architecture (mips-anything-gnu) and for his work on the SH architecture.   Maxim Kuvyrkov for various fixes.   Andreas Krebbel for his work on Linux for s390 and s390x.   Thorsten Kukuk for providing an implementation for NIS (YP) and NIS+, securelevel 0, 1 and 2 and for the implementation for a caching daemon for NSS (nscd).   Akhilesh Kumar for various fixes to locales.   Jeff Law for various fixes.   Doug Lea for contributing the memory allocation functions malloc, realloc and free and related code.   Chris Leonard for various fixes and enhancements to localedata.   Ilya Leoshkevich for various fixes.   Dmitry V. Levin for various fixes.   Stefan Liebler for various fixes.   Hongjiu Lu for providing the support for a Linux 32-bit runtime environment under x86-64 (x32), for porting to Linux on IA64, for improved string functions, a framework for testing IFUNC implementations, for implementing Intel Control-Flow Enforcement Technology, and many bug fixes.   Rafał Lużyński for contributing support for two grammatical forms of month names, and for various fixes to locales.   Luis Machado for optimized functions on PowerPC.   David J. MacKenzie for his contribution to the getopt function and writing the tar.h header.   Lukasz Majewski for Y2038 related fixes.   Greg McGary for adding runtime support for bounds checking.   Roland McGrath for writing most of the GNU C Library originally, for his work on the Hurd port, his direction as part of the GNU C Library steering committee and as FSF Project Steward for the GNU C Library, and for many bug fixes and reviewing of contributions.   Allan McRae for various fixes.   Jason Merrill for the port to the Sequent Symmetry running Dynix version 3 (i386-sequent-bsd).   Chris Metcalf for the port to Linux/Tile (tilegx-anything-linux and tilepro-anything-linux) and support for the generic Linux kernel syscall interface used by several newer ports.   Jim Meyering for various fixes.   David Miller for contributing the port to Linux/Sparc (sparc*-anything-linux).   Alan Modra for his improvements for Linux on PowerPC.   David Mosberger-Tang for contributing the port to Linux/Alpha (alpha-anything-linux).   Wainer dos Santos Moschetta for various fixes to powerpc.   Stephen Moshier for implementing some 128-bit long double format math functions.   Stephen Munroe for his port to Linux on PowerPC64 (powerpc64-anything-linux) and for adding optimized implementations for PowerPC.   Paul E. Murphy for various fixes on PowerPC and for implementing the IEEE 128-bit floating point type for PowerPC.   Joseph S. Myers for numerous bug fixes for the libm functions, for his maintainership of the ARM and MIPS architectures and the math component, improving cross-compilation and cross-testing of the GNU C Library, expanded coverage of conformtest, merging the ports/ subdirectory into the GNU C Library main repository and his direction as FSF Project Steward for the GNU C Library.   Marko Myllynen for various fixes.   Szabolcs Nagy for various fixes.   Will Newton for contributing some optimized string functions and pointer encryption support for ARM and various fixes.   Carlos O’Donell for his maintainership of the HPPA architecture, for maintaining the GNU C Library web pages and wiki, for his direction as FSF Project Steward for the GNU C Library and various bug fixes.   Alexandre Oliva for adding TLS descriptors for LD and GD on x86 and x86-64, for the am33 port, for completing the MIPS n64/n32/o32 multilib port, for thread-safety, async-signal safety and async-cancellation safety documentation in the manual, for his direction as FSF Project Maintainer and for various fixes.   Paul Pluzhnikov for various fixes.   Marek Polacek for various fixes.   Siddhesh Poyarekar for various fixes, an implementation of a framework for performance benchmarking of functions and implementing the tunables infrastructure.   Tom Quinn for contributing the startup code to support SunOS shared libraries and the port to SGI machines running Irix 4 (mips-sgi-irix4).   Torvald Riegel for the implementation of new algorithms for semaphores, pthread_rwlock and condition variables.   Maciej W. Rozycki for MIPS fixes, support for ABSOLUTE symbols, and various fixes.   Leonardo Sandoval for various fixes.   Pravin Satpute for writing sorting rules for some Indian languages.   Douglas C. Schmidt for writing the quick sort function used as a fallback by qsort.   Will Schmidt for optimized string functions on PowerPC.   Andreas Schwab for the port to Linux/m68k (m68k-anything-linux), for his direction as part of the GNU C Library steering committee, and for various bug fixes.   Martin Schwidefsky for porting to Linux on s390 (s390-anything-linux) and s390x (s390x-anything-linux).   Thomas Schwinge for his contribution to Hurd and the SH architecture.   Martin Sebor for various fixes.   Andrew Senkevich for contributing vector math function implementations for x86.   Carlos Eduardo Seo for optimized functions on PowerPC.   Arjun Shankar for testing and bug fixing.   Marcus Shawcroft for contributing the AArch64 port.   TAMUKI Shoichi for various fixes.   Franz Sirl for various fixes.   Jes Sorensen for porting to Linux on IA64 (ia64-anything-linux).   Rajalakshmi Srinivasaraghavan for various fixes and optimizations on PowerPC and for implementing the IEEE 128-bit floating point type for PowerPC.   Richard Stallman for his contribution to the getopt function.   Alfred M. Szmidt for various fixes.   Chung-Lin Tang for contributing the Nios II port.   Ian Lance Taylor for contributing the port to the MIPS DECStation running Ultrix 4 (mips-dec-ultrix4).   Samuel Thibault for improving the Hurd port.   Pino Toscano for various fixes.   Matt Turner for various fixes to the Alpha port.   Tim Waugh for the implementation of the POSIX.2 wordexp function family.   Ulrich Weigand for various fixes to the PowerPC64 and Arm ports.   Florian Weimer for his maintainership of the network component, for handling of security issues, and for various fixes.   Zack Weinberg for the explicit_bzero implementation and for various fixes.   Mark Wielaard for various fixes.   Eric Youngdale for implementing versioning of objects on the symbol level.   Adhemerval Zanella for optimized functions on PowerPC, ISO C threads support and various fixes.   Xuelei Zhang for optimized functions on AArch64.  
Some code in the GNU C Library comes from other projects and might be under a different license: 
  The timezone support code is derived from the public-domain timezone package by Arthur David Olson and his many contributors.   Some of the support code for Mach is taken from Mach 3.0 by CMU; the file if_ppp.h is also copyright by CMU, but under a different license; see the file LICENSES for the text of the licenses.   The random number generation functions random, srandom, setstate and initstate, which are also the basis for the rand and srand functions, were written by Earl T. Cohen for the University of California at Berkeley and are copyrighted by the Regents of the University of California.  They have undergone minor changes to fit into the GNU C Library and to fit the ISO C standard, but the functional code is Berkeley’s.   The Internet-related code (most of the inet subdirectory) and several other miscellaneous functions and header files have been included from 4.4 BSD with little or no modification.  The copying permission notice for this code can be found in the file LICENSES in the source distribution.   The getaddrinfo and getnameinfo functions and supporting code were written by Craig Metz; see the file LICENSES for details on their licensing.   The DNS resolver code is taken directly from BIND 8.2.3-T5B, which includes copyrighted code from UC Berkeley and from Digital Equipment Corporation.  See the file LICENSES for the text of the DEC license.   The code to support Sun RPC is taken verbatim from Sun’s RPCSRC-4.0 distribution; see the file LICENSES for the text of the license.   The math functions are taken from fdlibm-5.1 by Sun Microsystems, as modified by J.T. Conklin, Ian Lance Taylor, Ulrich Drepper, Andreas Schwab, and Roland McGrath.   Many of the IEEE 64-bit double precision math functions (in the sysdeps/ieee754/dbl-64 subdirectory) come from the IBM Accurate Mathematical Library, contributed by IBM.   Many of the IA64 math functions are taken from a collection of “Highly Optimized Mathematical Functions for Itanium” that Intel makes available under a free license; see the file LICENSES for details.  
